# Lead-Lag Relationships Between Regional Oil Prices, US Retail Oil Prices, and Crude Oil Prices

*Completed as a final project for Carnegie Mellon University's 36-671 Time Series course*

## Executive summary

This report analyzes the relationship of American gasoline prices with crude oil prices and the comparison of regional gasoline prices within the United States in order to model, forecast and understand gasoline price dynamics in the United States. These findings are based on an initial ARIMA (auto-regressive and moving average) fit on the gasoline prices and two fitted VAR (vector autoregressive) models. The first VAR model is fit on US gasoline prices and Brent crude oil prices. The second VAR model is fit on the gasoline prices for 5 subregions of the United States: West Coast, Rocky Mountains, Midwest, Gulf Coast, and East Coast. Based on the findings, the VAR (vector autoregressive) model showed that gasoline prices does have a dependence on the one-week lag from oil prices, but the forecasts from the ARIMA (auto-regressive and moving average) model are comparable. Changes in the price of Brent crude oil from a week ago affect the price of gasoline in the US. Both the ARIMA and VAR models failed to capture the recent price shock, instead forecasting a gradual decline over the four week forecast horizon. This suggests that including oil prices in the VAR(2) model did not substantially improve short term forecasting. These errors in the models are due to external shocks that are outside the scope of this model and could not be forecasted. Regional gasoline prices overall tend to move in conjunction with each other, but gasoline prices in the West Coast and the Rockies regions seem to be more driven by local impacts to the price, possibly due to higher transportation-related costs and policy-driven costs.